---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-16T21:06:07.869Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-16T21:05:56.681Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-16-a3bad99f-5ca2-47a9-94d6-7a01fab6c874.md
published: true
url: a3bad99f-5ca2-47a9-94d6-7a01fab6c874/index.html
_type: Article

---
This short paper is meant to inform the reader of the role of
the Trinity, particularly with regards to both the inspiration and ongoing work
of the Word of God. However, before we can jump into defining these roles, we
must first define what is meant by "inspiration" and "ongoing work". These two
quick definitions will serve as foundational knowledge that must be understood
before discussing the individual roles of Father, Son, and Spirit.

Firstly, that the Word of God was inspired simply means there
was divine influence or action on the men who physically penned the Scriptures.
The obvious verse that ranks at the top of this truth is 2 Timothy 3:16-17, "All Scripture is
God-breathed and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting and training in
righteousness, so that the servant of God may be thoroughly equipped for every good work." 

The second portion of the word translated as "God-breathed"
is the same word we would translate as Spirit; 

_[****][0]__pneuma_

. God the Father used God the Spirit to write the scriptures
through the hands of men. The Son of God, the central figure and culmination of
the Word of God was conceived by the Spirit as well. 

The ongoing work of
the Word of God is too much to explore deeply in a one-page paper. However, the
main purpose is to relay the Gospel message to mankind. In the Gospel of Christ
we learn who God is, what he's done (salvation), who we are because of that
(God's children and a foretaste of his kingdom), and what we must do in light
of the other truths. God the Father declares, "I'm God and you've rebelled
against me." God the son declares, "I will reconcile all who believe in me and
restore the once perfect relationship with God." This is accomplished through
God the Spirit working through the Word of God into the lives of mankind.

_The New International Version_. Grand
Rapids, MI: Zondervan, 2011\. Print.

[0]: a3bad99f-5ca2-47a9-94d6-7a01fab6c874#_ftn1